---
layout: post
title: Client Centered Software Development
subtitle: Chapter 6 Reflection
--- 
## Introduction
In today's post, I will reflect on Chapter 6 of the Client Centered Software Development textbook. This chapter dives into database development and its principles. 

## Main Points

### Database Principles
Databases are collections of data organized in a certain way for efficient storage and easy retrieval of information. Databases are essential to most softwares and is separate from where the program is running. A common type of database is the relational model which uses structured query langueage or SQL. Its basis is relational algebra and is pretty easy to work with. I am personally very familiar with relational models and SQL after taking Database Concepts last semester. I love how easy it can be to organize, search, and manipulate data within a relational model. In order to manipulate data, you must execute queries. Also, using primary keys and foreign keys can help organize and connect multiple tables within your database. 

### Database Access
Database systems are integrated with common languages through the use of database extensions. These extensions allow for you to embed your code with queries rather than accessing the data separately. There are three extensions mentioned in the chapter: MySQL, PostregSQL, and SQLite. Maintaining your databases requires the use of CRUD functions. These are used to create, retrieve, update, and delete rows from your tables in the database. 

### Database Integrity 
To ensure database integrity and security, each table in a database requires a separate module. Simply, a layering principle is followed in order to check the queries in the software. This ensures concurrency control as conflicts between different clients will be minimized. Database integrity is crucial because you want to make sure that all of your data is accurate and secure. Thus, access to the database must be restricted and protected.

### Database Security
Secure databases prevent unauthorized destruction or access to data and ensures data integrity. Access is divided into four levels: Server level, Database level, Table level, and Column level. The server level entails privileges that apply to all databases on the server whereas the database level involves privileges that apply to all tables in a particular database. The table level involves privileges that apply to all columns of a particular table in the database while the column level involves privileges that apply to an individual column of a table in the database. These privileges can be granted or revoked at each of the levels. 

### Database Testing
Testing and debugging databases is similar yet different to the techniques used for domain classes and modules. The unit tests must target CRUD functions as well as ensuring that the table can be returned to its original state the database was in before the test is performed. Typically, unit-testing databases consists of three main steps: Setup, Test, Teardown. In the setup stage, you create objects and new rows in the table which tests for the Create function of CRUD. Next, in the test stage you replace and update rows in the table which aligns with the Retrieve and Update functions. And lastly, the teardown stage is where you delete rows from the table which, as you can guess, tests the Delete function. 
