--- 
layout: post
title: Meeting Charleston
subtitle: CofC Alumni Symposium 
---

## Reflection on the Alumni Symposium
For my meetup, I had the chance to attend CofC's annual alumni symposium. The alumni consisted of past graduates who attended CofC prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. The three of them all have different titles and work at different companies here in Charleston. With their focuses being in design, network security, and software engineering, each of the presenters were able to give us various perspectives on their daily responsibilities and work-life balance. Furthermore, the Q & A session allowed us to understand how their careers were affected by the pandemic as they transitioned to remote work. Without a doubt, the pandemic has shifted company cultures not only in the tech industry, but in all industries. Some questions I asked was how do we replace our in person connection with colleagues? And, will their companies ever bring their employees back to the office? Also, what should we do to land a job? 

The three panelists discussed the various communication platforms that assisted their companies in switching to working remotely. Likewise, they mentioned their companies hosting virtual 'happy hours' as well as miscellaneous chat rooms. Although this hasn't replaced the social connection that they were used to, they did say it allowed for more personal freedom throughout their day to day. In regards to landing a job, the designer mentioned for his line of work, having a portfolio and a personal website will help you stand out from other applicants. Also, the panelists mentioned that investing time in your resume and linkedin is also essential for applying to jobs. Aside from developing your technical skills as a student, the alumni said that networking and attending events can help accelerate your chances at getting a job. Likewise, they mentioned that attending graduate school is not a guarantee that you will land the job you are trying to get. It can; however, help you secure a higher salary than other candidates. 

Although I am lucky enough to say that I have secured a job after graduation, I learned a lot from the symposium, especially in terms of what to expect when working remotely. I will be working as a tech consultant at Capgemini's Columbia office and honestly I don't know much about what is expected of me for my specific role. But Capgemini plans for us to be back in person, yet I expect the first month to remain virtual. Mainly, this symposium helped teach me what daily tasks the alumni have to complete and they all said that their time training really prepared them. Also, they said that an exciting thing about their careers is that they are continuously developing new skills and learning more about their likes and dislikes. 
