---
layout: post
title: Client Centered Software Development
subtitle: Chapter 5 Reflection 
---
## Introduction
In today's post, I will reflect on Chapter 5 of the Client Centered Software Development textbook. This chapter focuses on Domain Class development. Domain Class development is technique that combines using code that already exists in other open source projects with creating your own classes. In addition, the chapter goes through both unit and system testing as well as debugging and client review. 

## Main Points

### Domain Classes
Mainly, domain classes are an efficient and critical technique in open source software. In fact, they are often found to occur in several different FOSS projects. The book provides the example of external legacy code with the Person class which we often see. The Person class holds all of the basic variables that would identify a specific person. Domain classes are incredibly useful and save developers a ton of time. The book recommends first looking for external legacy code before creating your own. On the other hand, reusing internal legacy code can be equally beneficial when dealing with an open source project. However, it does require more time and effort than fixing a bug or a usability issue. And lastly, creating your own domain classes may not be as simple as you would think. Most of the time, domain classes created from scratch will only be used in the same application. 

### Functionality
When adding functionality, it is smart to begin with constructors and getters. Getters ensure the declaration of public instance variables. Once those are created, you can see what other functions you need. 

### Software Testing
Testing strategies are essential to maintain and improve your project. Testing frameworks are typically incorporated into IDE's for easy access. Contemporary approaches to unit and system testing encourages feedback from the client and thoughtful coding. Test-driven development (TDD) is a type of contemporary testing that "places testing hand-in-hand with the requirements gathering and before any of the code is written. Most importantly, testing does not guarantee errorless code; however, it does ensure that the code does not fail the specific tests that are used. Designing test cases begins with a collection of individual tests that test each of the classes and modules, forming a 'test suite'. It is beneficial for your code's architecture to support continuous testing. A way to do that is to create a directory for unit and system tests. Within a test suite, there should exist a test for every module and function, written in the form of an assertion. This asssertion is basically a Boolean function that will return true if successful and false if not. Your test suite's target should be 100% code coverage and use case coverage. When testing use cases, identify user interface elements that implement the use case.

### Debugging
Debugging is crucial throughout software development, but is very important to CO-FOSS projects. Github and IDE's have built-in debugging support which can help speed up the process. However, this is not that helpful when users fail to locate and communicate the location of the bug. This is seen less when developers are the users of the software, but most projects do not have that luxury. This is why a software's architecture is crucial, because it can either make it easier to find the bug or much more difficult. The book also discusses the concept of "bad smells" or segments of code that cannot be read clearly and concisely and require improvement. Most of the time, debugging requires the refactoring of these bad smells and metrics. 


