---
layout: post
title: Client Centered Software Development
subtitle: Chapters 7 & 9
---
## Introduction
In today's post, I will reflect on Chapter 7 & 9 of the Client Centered Software Development textbook.

## Main Points

### Chapter 7: User Interface Development
User interface development is essential to CO-FOSS as its the main interaction between the software and its users. It's also the starting point of the software's integrity and usability and where it is  maintained. The main principles of UI design and development are split in to the following categories: task-oriented, language, simplicity, navigability, visual consistency, discoverability, data integrity, client-server integrity, security, and documentation. Mainly, it is the developers responsibility to ensure that their system is simple and easy to use. The book discusses the MVC pattern as a way to ensure a system's interface. I learned about the MVC pattern last semester and used it in my class with Dr. Leclerc. The Model-View-Control pattern splits the system's code into three categories. The model includes the code that deals with the application's data and database connections. The view involves the code that deals with the look and design of the interface to the user. This is where you'll see the HTML/CSS files. And lastly, the control involves the code that deals with user input, output, and navigational functionality. This pattern encourages independent, organized code. It also helps with unit testing and overall maintenance of the system. In my experience, I also found that it was easier to find bugs and issues with in the code. 

### Chapter 9: Continuing the Journey 
This chapter discusses the next steps a developer takes once the development stage is complete for the CO-FOSS project. Mainly, a developer should be found, the software should be installed on a client's server, and the code should be released to a public repository for others to use. Transitioning to professional support entails finding a hosting service for your project while also ensuring the client and the service support the transition and the client's web site. Also, it is crucial for the software to be compatible with the user's server and for a professional developer to be hired so the project can be maintained. Sometimes you can even proceed with this transition for free with a service who is also a non-profit. 
