---
layout: post
title: Release Early and Often
subtitle: Release Early and Often
---

# Reflection on Readings 

This week's readings dove in to the importance of documentation in open source software. Preparing your software with documentation allows for the software to be useed well after the development period has ended. Proper developer documentation allows for future developers to understand and work with your code. In addition, user documentation cements the relationship between the software and its users, ensuring continuous use of the product. Mainly, when writing documentation, one should be aware of the audience they are writing for as that will determine the type of technical writing that he or she produces. Furthermore, these audiences can be divided into subgroups that would further alter the type of writing required. For example, users are divided into new users and experienced users. This differentiates the amount of specific details needed and results in tutorials and user manuals. Likewise, an open discussion forum can address both types of users who have questions of all sorts, as we have seen on github. Even though it might seem a bit obvious, proper documentation should directly answer any question that a user may ask and covers all situations that a user may encounter. Often times, documentation is not done properly leaving users to have many unanswered questions. This can frustrate the user and possibly deter them from using the software altogether. Likewise, translated documentation may be necessary for users who are not native to the English language. I personally have dealt with translations when I was working with the PrestaShop Open Source Project. Given that PrestaShop was created by French developers, the software's documentation had to be translated not only into English but other languages as well. Likewise, developers might want to include illustrations for those who have disabilities or lack good reading skills. 
