---
layout: post
title: A Case for Human Values in Software Engineering
subtitle: What's Happening?
tags: [reading, reflection, software]
---

## Introduction
In today's post, I will be discussing the article **A Case for Human Values in Software Engineering** from the IEEE Software Magazine. Written by Jon Whittle, Maria Ferrario, Will Sim, and Waqar Hussain, the article discusses the underrepresentation of human values in software engineering. Human values may be 'good' or 'bad' and have no moral connotation, whereas "ethics are societally agreed moral expectations". Although certain values are considered in software engineering, other values like diversity and integrity are disregarded. Whereas people in information systems and human-computer interaction constantly consider human values when designing their systems and products, software engineers are severly lacking in this area. Today, value-based software engineering has unfortunately become economic. Human values and business values are getting lost in translation. 

## Research
The authors conducted two experiments for this study that illustrate the necessity for considering human values in software engineering. The first experiment, called the Clasp Project, dealt with autistic adults and their close ones in hopes of developing software that would reduce their social anxiety. The main issue addressed was discovering what values were important to autistic adults and how they could incorporate their own stimulatory behavior to lower their anxiety. To successfully create a tool, the researchers had to utilized the values of the autistic adults in the requirements for the software. This led to them ensuring the tool allows for active interactions as a form of control for the test subjects. Along with the other requirements for the system, the values of the subjects served as the explanation for their neccessity (the "why"). Where a requirement would not be necessary for a person without autism, it may be crucial to those who do. 

In a similar manner, The Patchworks Project worked with a local charity and a group of homeless people in hopes of increasing their access to important information and resources. While creating a radio-frequency identification-based device, the researchers ran into a confilct of values with the charity. Mainly, the developers wanted to create an innovated product, whereas the charity's values were more centered around the empowerment and trust of its users. This shifted their focus from typical software requirements to the tool's ability to empower the homeless population. 

## Reflection
Often times, developers are wrapped up in their own bubble when creating their products. They tend to ignore the values of their users. This study illustrated the necessity for a holistic approach in software design and development. There needs to exist a balance between the software's capabilities and it's original purpose (a purpose driven by human values). In addition, the authors found that technical solutions for human values must coincide with nontechnical ones. If they do not, it can result in the suppression of certain groups. For example, I learned that Amazon's algorithm does not offer the same free-day shipping experience to minority neighborhoods. This clearly illustrates the unfair bias software can create when human values are not considered. It is crucial that we as software developers always respect human values when creating our products and at the same time raise awareness of the lack of respect. 
