---
layout: post
title: The Cathedral & The Bazaar
subtitle: Reflections on FOSS
cover-img: /assets/img/Cathedral.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/Cathedral.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [reading, reflection]
---

## The Cathedral & The Bazaar
In this reading, Eric Steven Raymond dives into his experience with open source software and Linux. His view towards software development is that the most important (operating systems and critical tools) should be built in the same way cathedrals are. This belief reminded me of Ken Follet's novel, Pillars of the Earth, where the plot is centered around the building of a cathedral in old England. Cathedrals are incredibly intricate and require full installation before presenting it to the public. In terms of software development, Raymond states that the most important software systems need to be fully constructed and debugged before releasing them to the public. Raymond's experience with Linux showed him that the Cathedral approach may not always be the best. He explains that Linux is an example of the "release early and often" philosophy. Denoting this as the "bazaar style", release early and often enables rapid and continuous improvement from contributors. Raymond's experience with this bazaar style in the form of an open source project showed him the most effective methods of software development and how the Linux community is able to thrive. 

## Lessons
The first lesson Raymond discusses is that "every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch". Although this may seem obvious, it's true that when a developer is trying to solve a personal problem, they are more likely to be committed to solving a problem they are passionate about. Likewise, Raymond realized that great programmers know how to rewrite and reuse code that already exists to solve their problems. This made me think about how musicians tend to remake music that already exists. Everything is a remix of something that already exists. In the Linux world, this is heavily encouraged and easy to do. In addition, Raymond emphasizes that revision is necessary because you most likely won't solve your problem with your first solution. Other lessons that I found important is the importance of making your software user-driven. Listening to your users and quickly scaling your product allows for rapid improvement. Maximizing the amount of collaboration is what allows you to rapidly improve and avoid bugs along the way. Also, I found it to be very true that one person can discover a bug while another person can quickly solve it. Another lesson I learned is that it is better to have smart data structures than it is to have smart code. This makes sense since if the data is structured poorly, it is hard to navigate through the product and can cause plenty of issues. 

## Difference Between the Styles
Raymond claims the core difference between the cathedral-builder style and the bazaar style is that with the cathedral approach, bugs and issues "are tricky, insidious, deep phenomena". Whereas in the bazaar style, "you assume that bugs are generally shallow phenomena – or, at
least, that they turn shallow pretty quickly when exposed to a thousand eager co-developers pounding on every single new release. Accordingly you release often in order to get more corrections, and as a beneficial side effect you have less to lose if an occasional botch gets out the door". I believe this is illustrated so clearly in Github. Contributors get to decide which issues they believe they can fix and leave the others for the rest of the experts. It makes more sense than expecting one developer to have all the expertise. Where I may have more experience with Python and Java, another developer may be better at C++ and PhP. Surprisingly, the bazaar style is for the most part unaffected by duplication of work by developers, since feedback is almost instant. The more users there are, the more bugs will be discovered. Likewise, the organization of releases allows developers to find serious bugs more easily. Raymond also discusses the preconditions of the bazaar style. A project cannot originate in bazaar mode; however, as long as it runs and it shows potential to evolve it can transition into the bazaar style. Moreover, the coordinator of the project does not have to be a genius themself, but they have to be able to “recognize good design ideas from others”. Likewise, the coordinator must have great communication and people skills. With developers tending to be introverted, I find it is rare to have these strengths in the computer science field. Personally, I have found that my extroverted skills have made me stand out in my classes and at work and I believe that this should be more emphasized in our field. 


