---
layout: post
title: Open Source Reflections
subtitle: Reflections on Open Source in Today's World
tags: [reading, reflection, open-source]
---
This week's blog focuses on two articles from opensource.com.

## 7 Ways Open Source was Essential to Business in 2020

This [article](https://https://https://opensource.com/article/20/3/open-source-working-home) discusses the top 10 open source tools for working from home during the Covid-19 pandemic. The transition to remote work forced companies in all industries to utilize new tools to manage their new virtual work environment. Open source software became a major tool for companies as it could improve communication and project management within a company. The first tool the article discusses is Jitsi, an open source video conferencing software that does not require registration and provides an incredibly simple way to begin a conference whenever and wherever. I think that not requiring registration takes out half the headache of video conferencing software. In my experience, I have been unable to attend some of my virtual classes if I was not signed in to my school email account. Another tool mentioned is Drawpile, which is an open collaborative drawing application. Although I have used the whiteboard tool on Zoom, I have not come across a collaborative whiteboard application. This couold be great for designers or students working in a group. 

## How Open Source is Helping Solve the Plastic Pollution Problem
Whereas this [article](https://https://opensource.com/article/21/1/openlittermap) dives into how open source is becoming a sustainable solution. Mainly, the article discusses an open source database software called OpenLitterMap. OpenLitterMap utilizes crowdsourcing to track global litter. OpenLitterMap illustrates the potential for "crowd-powered science" and embodies collaboration and open data. As long as you have a smartphone, you can help map litter. The article calls OpenLitterMap to be a 'catalyst' for the world's capacity to collect data. Basically, OpenLitterMap relies on people everywhere to share and log data on the plastic pollution within an area. This data can then be used to create or improve policies and hold producers accountable. I thought that this was a great use of crowdsourcing and could be a great way to help protect our environment from plastic pollution. Moreover, I thought that this technology could be a way to see how polluted our oceans are and come up with new ways to save them. OpenLitterMap's data is free to use without resyriction through the Open Database License. This differs from how most geospatial data is used for people prefer to monetize it and restrict it with licenses. In fact, there has been an entire industry created from selling geospatial data and analysis. 

Although OpenLitterMap began in 2008, it has released multiple versions of both its web application and mobile application. Its users vary from students to retirees and only require them to snap a picture of the litter they find and geotag it. Collecting data in this way supports the concept of citizen science and could be essential in fighting the plastic pollution problem. Likewise, the success of this open source software relies on its global community of users. This is a way to not only monitor the litter crisis but to also enable communities around the world to hold producers accountable and let us see society's potential to collectively gather data to fix major issues.
